To install VCtools, do the following things.  As a convention, command lines that start with "$" should be run
as your regular user. Those that start with "#" should be run as root.

*	Make sure you have a directory where your projects will live.  You probably already have one.  If not,
create one.  It can be wherever you want, but most people like to have it right in their home directory.  This
corresponds to the PersonalDir directive in your VCtools.conf file.  Here's an example:

		$ mkdir ~/proj

*	Go to your project directory.  You must be in this directory when you create a new project.

		$ cd ~/proj

*	Check out VCtools from GoogleCode like so:

		$ svn checkout http://vc-tools.googlecode.com/svn/VCtools/trunk VCtools

*	(Optional) If you want your project files to belong to a different group, set that now.  On a box which is
devoted to you, this is probably not necessary.  On a shared box, you may have a "dev" group or somesuch:

		$ chgrp -R dev VCtools

*	Switch to root and make the necessary directories.  The first directory is where your VCtools.conf will
live, and this one is pretty set.  The only way to change it is to change the CONFIG_FILE constant in
vctools-config.  The second one is where the VCtools Perl library files will live.  It can be anywhere you
like, but the base dir (i.e. the path without the trailing /VCtools) should either be in your @INC path
already, or you will have to add it to your $PERL5LIB variable.  The third one can be anywhere you like, and
corresponds to the VCtoolsBinDir directive in your VCtools.conf file.  You should make all three dirs writable
by whatever group your VCtools project files belong to.  This might be "users", or a special "dev" group, or
possibly a group that is the same as your name (but if you performed the optional step above, it should
definitely match that).

		# mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/VCtools mkdir -p /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/VCtools mkdir -p
		# /usr/local/VCtools chgrp dev /usr/local/etc/VCtools /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/VCtools
		# /usr/local/VCtools chmod g+w /usr/local/etc/VCtools /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/VCtools
		# /usr/local/VCtools

*	Copy the sample config file to it's proper resting place.  Edit it and make necessary changes.  You must
change the PersonalDir and VCtoolsBinDir directives if you chose alternative locations in the steps above.
Optionally, you could make the conf file writable by you.  On a shared box, we recommend leaving it as
editable by root only.

		# cp etc/VCtools.conf /usr/local/etc/VCtools.conf vi /usr/local/etc/VCtools.conf

*	You should now be able to use vrel to get your initial files to the right place:

		$ rel vbranch vbuild vcommit vcshell vctools-config vdel vdiff vfind vget vlog vmerge vmv vnew vrel
		vstat vsync vtag vunbranch vunget etc/vctools.cshrc etc/vctools.shrc lib/Args.pm lib/Base.pm
		lib/Common.pm lib/Config.pm

*	The vctools-config file is used by all other VCtools commands to figure out where various directories are.
It should be symlinked to a place that is already in your path.  Here's a common way to do it (note this is
done as root):

		# ln -s /usr/local/VCtools/vctools-config /usr/local/bin

*	Add the necessary lines to your startup file to enable your VCtools environment:

		# this is for csh or tcsh
		if ( -e /usr/local/etc/VCtools/vctools.cshrc ) then source /usr/local/etc/VCtools/vctools.cshrc endif

		# this is for sh, ksh, or bash note that bash will also accept "source" instead of "."
		if [ -e /usr/local/etc/VCtools/vctools.shrc ] then . /usr/local/etc/VCtools/vctools.shrc endif

At this point, you should be good to go.  You may wish to check the VCtools Wiki at
http://code.google.com/p/vc-tools/wiki/Overview for any tips about personal modifications to your environment
(particularly as relates to using (or not using) vcshell), which would go in a ~/.vctoolsrc file.  All that is
optional, however.

To test if your new setup is working, try this:

		$ vcshell VCtools			# optional; see the Wiki for how to avoid this step if you want to $ vstat
		-vr

And the output should look roughly like this:

  unchanged from repository => ./                                                          => INSTALL
  => etc/                                                        => etc/VCtools.conf
  => etc/vctools.cshrc                                           => etc/vctools.shrc
  => lib/                                                        => lib/Args.pm
  => lib/Base.pm                                                 => lib/Common.pm
  => lib/Config.pm                                               => lib/test_Args
  => lib/test_Base                                               => lib/test_Base.pm
  => lib/test_VCtools                                            => vbranch
  => vbuild                                                      => vcommit
  => vcshell                                                     => vctools-config
  => vdel                                                        => vdiff
  => vfind                                                       => vget
  => vlog                                                        => vmerge
  => vmv                                                         => vnew
  => vrel                                                        => vstat
  => vsync                                                       => vtag
  => vunbranch                                                   => vunget                                                      

If you run into any problems, don't hesitate to email Your Humble Author at barefootcoder@gmail.com (or
bburden@rent.com if you happen to be one of his coworkers).
